DOCS-3018: Update helmet tutorial for email option (#3553)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/projects/helmet.md

title: "Monitor Job Site Helmet Usage with Computer Vision"
linkTitle: "Helmet Monitor"
type: "docs"

> description: "Use computer vision to detct problems such as people not wearing safety gear and get email alerts."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Use computer vision to detect problems such as people not wearing safety gear and get email alerts."
```

## Set up email notifications

[Triggers](/configure/triggers/) allow you to trigger actions by sending an HTML request when a certain event happens.

> You can set up a trigger to trigger a serverless function that sends you a customized email when an image of someone without a hard hat is uploaded to the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up a trigger to send a webhook to a serverless function that sends you a customized email when an image of someone without a hard hat is uploaded to the cloud.
```

[Triggers](/configure/triggers/) allow you to trigger actions by sending an HTML request when a certain event happens.

> In this case, you're going to set up a trigger to trigger a serverless function that sends you an email when an image of someone without a hard hat is uploaded to the cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, you're going to set up a trigger to trigger a serverless function that sends you a customized email when an image of someone without a hard hat is uploaded to the cloud.
```

> If you don't care to send a custom email, you can use the trigger's built-in email functionality.
> If you prefer that, skip this part and move on to [Configure a trigger on your machine](#configure-a-trigger-on-your-machine).

Reviewer 2: Make it a bit more clear what the difference is
```suggestion
If you don't wish to customize the contents of the email, you can use Viam's built-in trigger email functionality which sends a generic email letting you know that data has been synced.
If you prefer the generic email, you can skip creating a serverless function and move on to [Configure a trigger on your machine](#configure-a-trigger-on-your-machine).
```

### Create a serverless function

> Before you configure a trigger on your machine, you need to create a serverless function for the trigger to call.

Author: this made more sense here to me

   If you don't see an email, check your spam folder.
   If you still don't see an email, make sure your SendGrid account is fully set up (2FA enabled, email confirmed) and that your email API key is [correctly configured](#configure-email-credentials).

{{% /expand %}}

### Configure a trigger on your machine

> Now it's time to configure a [trigger](/configure/triggers/) on your machine to trigger the email when a person is not wearing a hard hat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now it's time to configure a trigger so that you get an email when a person is not wearing a hard hat.
```

Since you configured data to sync only when an image of a person without a hard hat is captured, configuring the trigger to trigger each time an image is synced to the cloud will produce the desired result.

Configure a trigger as follows:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Builder" %}}

Go to the **CONFIGURE** tab of your machine on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click the **+** (Create) button in the left side menu and select **Trigger**.

Name the trigger and click **Create**.

Select trigger **Type** as **Data has been synced to the cloud** and **Data Types** as **Binary (image)**.

{{<imgproc src="/tutorials/helmet/trigger.png" resize="x400" declaredimensions=true alt="The trigger created with data has been synced to the cloud as the type and binary (image) as the data type." >}}

Next, configure notifications.
Add **Emails** or add a **Webhook** for custom emails.
If you created a cloud function to send you custom emails, follow these instructions:

{{%expand "Click to view instructions for custom emails" %}}

> Replace the **URL** value with the URL of your custom cloud function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Add Webhook** and enter the URL of your custom cloud function.
```
I don't think "URL" appears on the fancy config.

Configure the time between notifications.

For example:

![The trigger configured with an example URL in the Viam app.](/tutorials/helmet/trigger-webhook.png)

{{% /expand %}}

If you opted instead to use Viam's built-in email functionality, follow these instructions:

{{%expand "Click to view instructions for generic emails" %}}

> Add the email you wish to be notified whenever this trigger is triggered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the email address you wish to be notified whenever this trigger is triggered.
```
or perhaps less awk
```suggestion
Click **Add Email** and enter the email address where trigger notifications will be sent.
```

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
     "triggers": [
       {
         "event": {
           "attributes": {
             "data_types": ["binary"]
           },
           "type": "part_data_ingested"
         },
         "notifications": [
         {
          "type": "webhook",

>           "value": "https://us-east1-example-string-123456.cloudfunctions.net/hat-email",

Author: ```suggestion
          "value": "<Insert your own cloud function URL>",
```

          "seconds_between_notifications": 60
         }
        ]
      }
   ]
   ```

3. Replace the `value` in `notifications` with your cloud function URL.
   You can get this URL by copying it from the **TRIGGER** tab in the cloud function console.
   Once you've done this, the `value` line should resemble, for example, `"value": "https://us-east1-example-string-123456.cloudfunctions.net/hat-email"`.

>    If you skipped writing a custom cloud function in favor of the built-in email functionality, use this JSON for the `notifications` object instead:

Reviewer: I think put this in an expander and at the top of this segment or something like that. If people do the generic email way, they shouldn't have to read through all the rest

Author: I ended up putting both in expanders for maximum cleanness, LMK what you think!

Author: and including the full snippets both times
